---
title: bio
---

Chase and Brooke Lawrence are an American-based husband and wife
artist duo. The Lawrences are multimedia assemblage sculptors and oil painters, best known for their ghastly and poignant style. Keeping with the methods and techniques of the Old Spanish Baroque Masters, they interchangeably work on every piece together to create highly ornamental and imposing pieces of art. Their  sculptures and paintings aim to explore new expressions of contemporary portraiture, landscape, and allegory with an immediately recognizable and familiar aesthetic.


*"We sculpt and paint aspects of the spiritual themes, truths, and concepts seen through historical Christendom. Some aspects explore the spiritual process of what is called “Deconstruction and Reconstruction,”* where one’s Christian Faith is broken down and rebuilt in order to truly represent Christ and the fullness of His scriptural Love, in the face of biased and inaccurate translations of the Biblical text. We think this idea is best described by John Williamson, of The Deconstructionists Podcast. He Writes: *“It’s examining your faith from the inside looking for potential weaknesses. The analogy I like to use is, before you set sail on a cruise ship, you’ll see it in harbor and people applying a fresh coat of paint, sealing up any gaps and dealing with the rust. This is done so it doesn’t sink once you get out to sea. And that’s essentially the same thing that we’re saying about faith. It’s about taking ownership over what you believe and potentially letting go of some of the things that no longer work.”*


We are fascinated with the opulence and “beautiful gaudiness” of the Western Church, especially in Roman Catholicism and Greek Orthodoxy. We are intrigued how these cathedrals and churches are so over-the-top and how this decadence has been adapted since the 1st Century Church. *“My whole life I have been drawn to the ritual, pomp, and ceremony of the Western Church, though a great deal of these traditions are not found in the scriptures, nor the Hebraic and Jewish roots of the faith. Many customs in Western Christianity are rooted in the magisterium’s value of tradition over the written scriptures; they are eerily esoteric, arcane, and sometimes cult-like."* - Chase Lawrence. 


We create a lot of work that expresses the deep-seated stress
struggle, sorrow, and sense of loss that is often felt when deconstructing faith. We work in an expressive and stylized Spanish Baroque style because we love the dark colors and dramatic lighting that almost everyone is familiar with when they think of art. We also like learning the painting processes and techniques of the Old Masters, so that we can achieve a high level of realism and academic painting in our own contemporary way. When we work in sculpture, we are primarily using plaster pieces cast from molds, found objects, and a lot of woodworking. Our work does not follow a linear concept, but rather takes a “spiritual odyssey” through countless facets of faith; from whimsy to darkness, from macabre to quaint and serene. Some pieces illustrate a theological concept or theme, and some are simply portraits of Saints, mystics, or takes on biblical passages seldom portrayed in art.
